# Stake Wars: Episode III. Challenge 001

* Published on: 2022-07-27
* Updated on: 2022-07-27
* Submitted by: Crjobo

I will guide you through the challenges of Stake War III. 

We will start by creating your Shardnet wallet & deploy the NEAR CLI. It will give you the opportunity to understand how staking on NEAR works.

## Challenge submission

* No submission si required for this challenge; it will be evaluated together with the next one (002). 

## Useful links

Wallet: https://wallet.shardnet.near.org/

Explorer: https://explorer.shardnet.near.org/ 


### Create a wallet

First step is to create a wallet. Head here and follow the steps. Do NOT FORGET to note down your secret phrase on paper. 

https://wallet.shardnet.near.org/


#### Setup a Server on Hetzner

Head up to hetzner.com and buy a Server to deploy your node and validator node. 

I recommend: https://www.hetzner.com/dedicated-rootserver/ax41-nvme/configurator#/

The setup will take up to 15 minutes depending on how you pay and how fast your transaction will be. 

When done, go to you favorite Command Line Interface (CLI) and connect to your server through ssh. The form should be 

sudo ssh root@YOUR-IP

Then enter the password you have received from Hetzner. 

#### Setup NEAR-CLI

NEAR-CLI is a command-line interface that communicates with the NEAR blockchain via remote procedure calls (RPC):

* Setup and Installation NEAR CLI
* View Validator Stats

> Note: For security reasons, it is recommended that NEAR-CLI be installed on a different computer than your validator node and that no full access keys be kept on your validator node.
> Also if you configure both on the same server you will run into an issue later in the guide as you node and your validator node will want to run in // and will conflict. You will have then to kill the node before launching the validator node. 

First, let's make sure the linux machine is up-to-date.

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```

##### Install developer tools, Node.js, and npm

Then, we will start with installing `Node.js` and `npm`:
```
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_18.x | sudo -E bash -  
sudo apt install build-essential nodejs
PATH="$PATH"
```

Check `Node.js` and `npm` version:
```
node -v
```
> v18.x.x

```
npm -v
```
> 8.x.x


##### Install NEAR-CLI
Here's the Github Repository for NEAR CLI.: https://github.com/near/near-cli. To install NEAR-CLI, unless you are logged in as root, which is not recommended you will need to use `sudo` to install NEAR-CLI so that the near binary is saved to /usr/local/bin

```
sudo npm install -g near-cli
```

### Validator Stats

Now that NEAR-CLI is installed, let's test out the CLI and use the following commands to interact with the blockchain as well as to view validator stats. There are three reports used to monitor validator status:


###### Environment
The environment will need to be set each time a new shell is launched to select the correct network.

Networks:
- GuildNet
- TestNet
- MainNet
- **Shardnet** (this is the network we will use for Stake Wars)

Command:
```
export NEAR_ENV=shardnet
```

You can also run this command to set the Near testnet Environment persistent:
```
echo 'export NEAR_ENV=shardnet' >> ~/.bashrc
```

#### NEAR CLI Commands Guide:

###### Proposals
A proposal by a validator indicates they would like to enter the validator set, in order for a proposal to be accepted it must meet the minimum seat price.

Command:
```
near proposals
```

###### Validators Current
This shows a list of active validators in the current epoch, the number of blocks produced, number of blocks expected, and online rate. Used to monitor if a validator is having issues.

Command:
```
near validators current
```

###### Validators Next
This shows validators whose proposal was accepted one epoch ago, and that will enter the validator set in the next epoch.

Command:
```
near validators next
```

---


## We continue ?

Congrats you have managed the first step in you adventure. Let's go for step 2

[Setup and Run your Node](./002.md)


